USWDS-Site - What's new: Add README to posts directory (#3047)
uswds/uswds-site: _posts/README.md

# Creating post pages for the What's new feed

The feed on our [What's new page](https://designsystem.digital.gov/about/whats-new/) is powered by the files in two different directories:
- `/_posts`: These are the long format posts generated by [Jekyll posts](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/). These files will automatically generate both a post preview for the news feed and a separate page for the post content.

>   - See the instructions in this document to learn how to [create a new post](#creating-a-new-post), [customize a post's metadata](#customizing-post-metadata), and follow [post conventions](#post-conventions).

Author: Good call. That sentence does feel out of place. I ended up moving this sentence into a new intro section at the top. Hoping it makes the file make a bit more sense. Let me know what you think.

- `/_posts_short`: These are the short format previews that appear in the news feeds. These files do _not_ generate a related post page, and instead often link to different pages on our site or other locations.
  - See the README in the /_posts_short directory for instructions on creating a short post

## Creating a new post

> To create a new post, create a new branch then add a new file to this directory (`/_posts`) with a filename in the form:

Author: Updated in [d3ff4cb](https://github.com/uswds/uswds-site/pull/3047/commits/d3ff4cbc31318a5d38b546a475a80169ce9f455f)

```
YYYY-MM-DD-title.md
```

where:

- `YYYY` is the 4-digit year (`2024`) of the publish date
- `MM` is the 2-digit month, with a leading zero (`01` for January, `02` for February, etc.)
- `DD` is the 2-digit day of the month, also with a leading zero
- `title` is the so-called "slug" used in the post URL, and should be all lowercase with no spaces (e.g. `my-post-title`)

>[!note]
> The YYYY-MM-DD date set in the file name will:
> - Display as the "date" in the post
> - Sort the post in reverse chronological order (newest items first) in the news feed.

See the [Jekyll documentation about creating posts](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/#creating-post-files) for more info.

Next, in the file's contents, copy and paste the following:

```

> ---

Reviewer: Do we explain frontmatter for posts/short posts anywhere?

Are there frontmatter fields that we're missing?

Author: I added some content in [d3ff4cb](https://github.com/uswds/uswds-site/pull/3047/commits/d3ff4cbc31318a5d38b546a475a80169ce9f455f) that explains the sections of this template. Let  me know if you want additional changes.

title:
category: About
author:

> tags:

Author: I added a line to label this as a "blank template" and also added more guidance directly below this template that points to the customization section.

---

> 

Reviewer: **thought**: We should consider a link to a markdown guide. Probably future enhancement.

Author: Added a link to the basic markdown syntax in [1c76c3f](https://github.com/uswds/uswds-site/pull/3047/commits/1c76c3f9ca4049007a89a9d708f2033decb65939)

> This is my introductory paragraph.
> 
> ## This is a heading
> 
> And this is another paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An introductory plain text paragraph.

## This is an h2 heading

An ordered list with three items:
1. Item one
1. Item two
1. Item three
```

```

> ## Customizing post metadata

Reviewer: **polish**: This section could be moved up as part of the frontmatter example.

You can customize the post's metadata by defining the following in the file's [front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/):

| Key | Description | Required |
|--------|--------|--------|
| title | The title of the post | Yes |
| category | The site category that ties the post to the side navigation. The value for this should always be "About". | Yes|
| author | The author(s) listed in the byline | No |
| tags | The tag that describes the category of the post. Multiply tags can be added. The first tag will appear above the post title. | Yes |
| excerpt | The post summary that will be included in the post preview | Yes |
| lead | The first paragraph of your post displayed in large ("lead") text. When present, the lead will be used as the "excerpt" in the post preview. | No |
| expiration_date | The date when this post will receive the "This content is outdated" alert. This is typically set 2 years from the publication date. | No |

Here is a sample front matter customization:

```md
---
title: Lorem ipsum dolor
category: About
author: Suzy Q, Jane Doe, and Joe Schmoe

> tags:
> - discussion
> - news

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags:
  - discussion
  - news
```
